docs: restructure README for improved clarity (#111)
fiberplane/mcp-lite: packages/core/README.md

});
```

> [!TIP]
>
> The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open standard that enables secure connections between host applications and external data sources and tools, allowing AI assistants to reason over information and execute functions with user permission.

## Features

- No runtime dependencies and a single TypeScript entrypoint.
- Type-safe tool definitions with Standard Schema (Zod, Valibot, Effect, ArkType).
- Structured outputs with runtime validation and schema exposure via `tools/list`.
- HTTP + SSE transport built on the Fetch API (no stdio wrapper required).
- Adapter interfaces for sessions, client requests, and persistence when you outgrow stateless mode.
- Middleware hooks and server composition via `.group()` for modular setups.

> ## Installation

Reviewer: i like when installation is towards the top of the fold, but that's personal preference

```bash
npm install mcp-lite
# or
bun add mcp-lite
# or
pnpm add mcp-lite
```

## Type Safety

### Automatic Type Inference

Standard Schema validators provide automatic type inference:

```typescript
import { z } from "zod";

const SearchSchema = z.object({
  query: z.string(),
  limit: z.number().optional(),
  filters: z.array(z.string()).optional()
});

server.tool("search", {
  inputSchema: SearchSchema,
  handler: (args) => {
    // args is typed as { query: string, limit?: number, filters?: string[] }
    args.query.toLowerCase()
    args.limit ?? 10
    args.filters?.map(f => f.trim())

    return { content: [{ type: "text", text: "..." }] }
  }
})
```

### Structured Outputs

> Tools can return both human-readable content and machine-readable structured data. Use `outputSchema` to define the shape of `structuredContent`:

Reviewer: would be good to link to the spec docs on `structuredContent` because (as dsp mentioned) a lot of people are unawares of this part of the june spec, and just seeing `structuredContent` show up in the response might not click (i.e., might seem library specific instead of spec-compliant)

https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-06-18/server/tools#structured-content

    }
  })
})
```

The `outputSchema` provides runtime validation and type inference for `structuredContent`.

### Context API

The handler context provides typed access to session data, authentication, and client capabilities:

```typescript
handler: (args, ctx) => {
  ctx.progress?.({ progress: 50, total: 100 })
  ctx.session?.id
  ctx.authInfo?.userId
  ctx.state.myCustomData = "..."

  const validated = ctx.validate(MySchema, data)

  if (ctx.client.supports("elicitation")) {
    const result = await ctx.elicit({
      message: "Confirm action?",
      schema: z.object({ confirmed: z.boolean() })
    })
  }
}
```

### Multiple Validation Libraries

Use different validation libraries in the same server:

```typescript
import { z } from "zod"
import * as v from "valibot"
import { Schema } from "@effect/schema"

server
  .tool("zod-tool", { inputSchema: z.object({ ... }), handler: ... })
  .tool("valibot-tool", { inputSchema: v.object({ ... }), handler: ... })
  .tool("effect-tool", { inputSchema: Schema.struct({ ... }), handler: ... })
  .tool("json-schema-tool", {
    inputSchema: { type: "object", properties: { ... } },
    handler: (args: MyType) => ...

>   })

Reviewer: this example is wrong, right? we only support different validation libraries on different servers 

... but also makes me wonder: if you compose two servers with different validation libraries, what happens?

| Single server | In-memory | In-memory | `InMemorySessionAdapter` |
| Distributed | Redis/KV | Redis/KV | Custom adapters |
| Serverless | KV/R2 | Durable Objects | See examples below |

### Adapter Configuration

```typescript
// Development: stateless
const transport = new StreamableHttpTransport()

// Production: with sessions and client requests
const transport = new StreamableHttpTransport({
  sessionAdapter: new InMemorySessionAdapter({
    maxEventBufferSize: 1024
  }),
  clientRequestAdapter: new InMemoryClientRequestAdapter({
    defaultTimeoutMs: 30000
  })
})
```

### Built-in Adapters

- `InMemorySessionAdapter` - Session storage in memory
- `InMemoryClientRequestAdapter` - Client request tracking in memory

### Client Requests and Elicitation

The server can send JSON-RPC requests back to the MCP client (for example when you call `ctx.elicit`). Those requests are routed through the `ClientRequestAdapter`. Provide one when you need:
- Timeouts or retries for client prompts.
- To make sure an elicitation response is delivered even when the original POST is finished.
- To back the pending requests with shared storage in a multi-instance deployment.

> The in-memory adapter covers local runs. For production you can implement `ClientRequestAdapter` using Redis, D1, Durable Objects, or any queue that can look up pending requests by session and request id.

Reviewer: again this is very cloudflare-skewed. probably better to change "D1" to just be ... sqlite? or at that point just say "a database" idk

### Custom Adapters

Implement these interfaces for custom storage:

```typescript
interface SessionAdapter {
  generateSessionId(): string
  create(id: string, meta: SessionMeta): Promise<SessionData>
  has(id: string): Promise<boolean>
  get(id: string): Promise<SessionData | undefined>
  appendEvent(id: string, streamId: string, message: unknown): Promise<EventId>
  replay(id: string, lastEventId: EventId, write: WriteFunction): Promise<void>
  delete(id: string): Promise<void>
}

interface ClientRequestAdapter {
  createPending(sessionId: string, requestId: string, options): { promise: Promise<Response> }
  resolvePending(sessionId: string, requestId: string, response: Response): boolean
  rejectPending(sessionId: string, requestId: string, error: Error): boolean
}
```

See [examples/cloudflare-worker-kv-r2](./examples/cloudflare-worker-kv-r2) for a production implementation using Cloudflare KV.

## Runtime Environments

> `StreamableHttpTransport` runs anywhere the Fetch API is built in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`StreamableHttpTransport` runs anywhere the Fetch API is available:
```
